# About This Project

1. Dynamic and Reflexive graphic scores (DaRGS)
2. Single project route. There is a single theme I’d like to explore, however, I envisage that this will include a portfolio of the works created during the course of the project as well
3. Music, computing, and visuals tend to fall into a number of categories:
4. Audio generated from computational rules
5. Audio generated from scores generated by computational rules
6. Visuals generated by computational rules
7. Visuals generated by audio input via some computational rule
8. Audio generated from visual input via some computational rule (data sonification)

Since I come from a background of composition for improvised and aeleotoric computer musics, I am frustrated by the lack of feedback loops beween the compositional and group performance dynamics. I want to explore the ways computers can be utilised to reflexively generate graphic/system-based scores, responding to and shaping music in real-time. This work cumulates in a umber of compositional generative systems, as well as potentially, a performance.

1. Context/Background: what do you see the key issues involved in the project to be, what is your current knowledge and literature/scholarship available on the subject
2. Graphic scores and computing (xinakis…)
3. Interactive n Generative music (L…markov….)
4. Image GANs/generative n parametric images…
5. Sonification of boids for group performance dynamics
6. Skills survey: where to you see gaps in your current knowledge and skills, what are new areas to explore?
7. Compositional:
8. Simple algorithmic composition
9. Technical:
10. Integration of max/msp with javascript (I have experience in both, more max than JS, but I have little to no experience combining the two)
11. Machine listening
12. Research Questions: WHAT do you want to demonstrate or find out, what are you asking, what problem(s) you want to solve or what issue(s) you want to examine?
13. Can we abstract markov/L chains to higher-level concepts like melodic contour etc?
14. How does this typically relate to graphic scores?
15. Can these abstractions then be modulated? For the most simple example, can we take a markov chain and modulate its key/mode? In more abstract terms, what does it mean to modulate an idea/set of ideas such as “upwards then downward scoop” or even further “listen to the person next to you”?
16. How can we meaningfully represent group play dynamics and create musical games with visual/rule-based information? Can these dynamics be shifted over time?
17. How does this work for sample-based instruments and notations (solitude…)
18. With instruction-based scores such as artificial life, can a computer be trained to understand which instruction is being played?
19. Can
20. Methodology: HOW will you work towards achieving your goals?
21. Working with musicians I have performed with in this capacity before, I will start by examining the creative and communicative capacity of existing methods….explore/recreate, with a musician and max, an existing composition
22. Experiment with co-compositional methods between a single musician and max
23. Experiment in taking what would be sound expression from max and representing it meaningfully for another musician to enact.
24. Make the system bidirectional
25. Experiment with feedback loops, different inputs, and different players
26. Key References (Bibliography, List of works): what do you see the main reference points to be at this stage? Which artists are relevant?
27. Graphic Scores:

* The work of Iannis Xenakis
* George e stone’s artificial life
* corbusier, xenakis and phillips pavilion,
* solitude (steiner)

1. technical:

* Flucoma
* (Roads) granular
* Markov chain/machine listening
